In this video, you will learn to describe
the practice of digital forensics and
what technical skills and legal
knowledge is required to be effective.
>> We move now on to
the digital forensics area.
So digital forensics,
is a branch of forensic science.
It basically includes everything relate to
identification, recovery, investigation,
validation, and presentation of
facts regarding digital evidence.
There's digital evidence, it's usually
found on computers or similar digital
storage media devices, for example,
hard drives, cell phones, servers.
If we talk about forensic science,
we need to talk about
the Locard's exchange principle.
Dr. Edmond Locard is a pioneer
in the forensic science scene.
And he became known as
the Sherlock Holmes of France.
He came up with this principle,
that is true for
both the physical world as well as
the technical world or the computer world.
The perpetrator of a crime will bring
something into the crime scene and
leave with something from it.
And that both can be used
as forensics evidence.
Basically this means that when
anybody commits a crime, he will take
something from the crime, but he will
also leave something in the crime scene.
And those two facts can be used for
forensics evidence.
In digital forensics,
we need to talk about chain of custody,
just as we will in the forensic science.
Basically refers to
the chronological documentation or
paper trail that records the sequence
of custody, control, transfer,
analysis, and disposition of physical or
electronic evidence.
So the chain of custody, basically
it's a written document that will
allow us to reconstruct what have
been done with the evidence.
Who has had it in the past,
who has copied the information,
how it was copied, who has analyzed
the information, all sorts of things.
And chain of custody will be able to
tell us that or recreate that for us.
This chain of custody process have
been required, it is required for
any type of evidence to be
presented legally in court.
In digital forensics,
we have several tools there.
We can divided them into two,
hardware tools and software tools.
In hardware tools,
we have a few samples of the Faraday cage,
it's basically a device that
can block any electronic.
It basically blocks magnetic fields.
And it's used to isolate cellphones,
for example,
from the cellular data, wi-fi access.
So isolate the cellphone from any,
impulse or any electronic communication.
We also have a specific forensics tools or
forensics briefcase that have
a bunch of tools inside of them.
We can discuss them maybe it's
forensics laptops, power supplies,
tool sets, digital cameras,
case folders, blank forms.
Basically these blank forms are what
would then constitute the chain
of custody of any evidence
collected during the investigation.
Also we would need some empty hard drives
if we need to copy any information.
And also the write blockers because we
want to make sure that we're able to copy
anything from the hard drives but we're
not writing anything into the hard drives.
We have several software
tools out there and
these are just some very small list of
anything that's available out there.
We have open sourcing
applications like Volatility and
we also have paid software like FTK and
EnCase.
In the case of dd, it is basically
a bit-by-bit copier found in most of
the Linux operating systems out there.
Autopsy, Bulk Extractor, and
many more are some of the tools that can
be used in any forensics investigation.